Subject: Information for HRUMC Session Chairs


Dear Session Chairs,

Thank you for volunteering to be a session chair on Saturday at Hudson River. We very much appreciate it! Included below are instructions for chairing your session.  If you'd like to double check the session you are chairing, please see the program at http://joshua.smcvt.edu/hrumc/hrumc2016full.pdf

As a chair, your main job is to keep the talks to the schedule.

(0) Do not start talks early or let them run late. Any overrun will be taken from the period for questions.

Hold up 5 fingers to let the speaker know when 5 minutes are left, and 1 finger when 1 minute is left.

Should a speaker run over by 2 minutes after the 15 minute slot officially ends:  "I'm sorry to interrupt, but you've used up most of your question time, and we need to be sure that the schedule does not slip.  Please wrap it up in 2 or 3 sentences."

(1) Make sure you know how to pronounce names. For multi-author abstracts, make sure you know which author is speaking.

(2) Introduce (briefly) each talk and speaker.

(3) If some technology should go awry, flag down a student helper (should be some lurking in the hallways) or or call 802 654-2911..

(4) Contribute to a tone that is both friendly and professional.


Here are some more suggestions:

* Bring a reliable watch, set correctly.  Your cell phone will do.

* Get to the room early.  Acquaint yourself with the electronics in the room.  You can use the room slide at http://joshua.smcvt.edu/hrumc/rooms.pdf for display between talks.

*  Find the first speaker before you begin.  If possible, locate the other speakers (but they may not yet be there).

* Here is a sample introduction:  "Welcome to the second session on Function Theory.  My name is Susan Cardinal and I'll be chairing the session.  Each talk lasts 15 minutes, with a few minutes for questions afterwards.  I'll hold up 5 fingers to let the speaker know when 5 minutes are left, and 1 finger when 1 minute is left.  Any overrun will be taken from the period for questions.  Our first talk is ...

* At the end of each talk, thank the speaker and ask the audience for questions.
You should have a question ready for each talk in case nobody else does.

* (At the end of Session I)  "Welcoming remarks by our hosts followed by the keynote address by Scott Aaronson begins at 11:00 in the McCarthy Arts building."

* (At the end of Session III)  "This concludes this year's Hudson River Undergraduate Mathematics Conference.  I hope to see you again next Spring.""

Thank you,
Jim Heffeorn for the HRUMC Steering Committee
